I. Targets

There are three kinds of build targets in the Fabric sources:

1. the game client
   LOAD-CLIENT.scm
   ant client

   The game client is the program that players run in order to play
   the game.

2. the game server
   LOAD-SERVER.scm
   ant server   

   The game server is the program that we run on the xg server to
   provide game services.

3. development tools
   LOAD-<tool>.scm

   Development tools, like the Workshop, are programs we make to
   facilitate construction of game services and content.

The LOAD files list the sources that make up each program.

II. Organization

All sources inhabit a single common src directory. This arrangement
makes it easy to share common code between programs, and helps us
avoid duplicating code.

A simple naming convention is used to help us in navigating the code;
files are named using the following pattern:

  <category>-<specific tool>.scm

Currently the categories include:

  application - the source code of GUI programs
  assets      - code for handling textures, audio, and other media assets
  controls    - code for handling user input, events, and signals
  data        - code that implements data structures
  interface   - Java interfaces, used to organize APIs
  net         - network-communications code
  parameters  - definition of runtime configuration variables and constants
  player      - code that models the human player and his or her character
  server      - the source code of server-side programs
  setting     - code that sets up and manages the in-game environment experienced by players
  syntax      - extensions to Scheme syntax used by our programs
  tools       - command-line programs used for development and administration
  user        - code that manages user accounts and associated data
  utilities   - auxiliary procedures that support the other categories

Fabric programs fall into three categories:

  - applications: client-side GUI programs
  - server: headless server-side command-line programs
  - tools: command-line programs on either client or server side used for
           maintenance and administration

These three categories--applications, server, and tools--are main
programs. Sources in other categories are routines and data structures
that support these programs.

When adding a file, try to put it into a caregory that will help you
find the code later. Try to use the existing categories so that we
don't multiply categories beyond necessity, but don't force a new file
into a category that it doesn't fit; invent a new category if you need
to.


